#Get_and_Clean

##Contains the final project for Get and Cleaning course

####In this repository there are 3 files that was required in the project:

Readme.md           (with the instruction and description for running run_analisys.R)<br> 
Codebook.md         (with the variables description of file that is generated by run_analisys.R)<br> 
run_analysis.R      (R Program that takes data collected from the accelerometers and produce a table with some means)<br> 

####IMPORTANT

Before running the R program you should unzip next file in your working directory:<br>
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip<br>
This file will create a directory file "/UCI HAR Dataset" and there will be the next files:<br>
<ol>
<li>features.txt. (where the names of column will be taken)</li> 
<li>activity_labels.txt. (where the activity names will be taken)</li>
<li>test/subject.txt. (with the number of subject that take the test)</li>
<li>test/X_test.txt. (with the information that was collected or generated from accelerometers)</li>
<li>test/y_test.txt. (with the number of activity that the subject was doing in the test)</li>
<li>train/subject.txt. (with the number of subject that take the train)</li>
<li>train/X_train.txt. (with the information that was collected or generated from accelerometers)</li>
<li>train/y_train.txt. (with the number of activity that the subject was doing in the train)</li>
</ol>
####DESCRIPTION OF FUNTION run_analysis()
####Please pay atention of the step 6 is very important
<ol>
<li>Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set. With cbind functionI will agregate activities and subjects for identificate the observation and posteriory I will merge the files with rbind(). When I read the "X_var.txt" files I especified that the col.names was in the second column of the file "features.txt" previusly read. </li>
<li>Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. With only_select_col() function I selectect the names of columns that was contained “mean” or “std" string, but I exclude the variables with angle because this is not a properly mean.</li>
<li>Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set. I replace the number of activity for the label activity in "activity_labels.txt", using the mutate function.</li>
<li>Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. I fixed the column names with sub() function because the string "(",")","-" was transformed in "."</li>
<li>From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. I used dplyr function group_by() and summarise_each() to obtain the final tidy_data</li>
<li>Finaly the function will return the data.frame with averages solicited in the previusly step and will create the table "get&clean.txt" with the parameters row.name=FALSE. </li>
</ol>

